this is a film that can entertain anyone young or old, i usually don't care for animated movies but this film is the real deal, this is one of disney's best animated movies. the animation is top notch and flawless. this film also features superb work from the vocal cast james earl jones, jeremy irons, whoopi goldberg. this is a standout.
Sentiment: Positive (Score: 1.000)

this was a foundational text for little me - saw it multiple times theatrically to the point my dad just dropped me off at the teaneck theater (3 bucks in those days) and watched it by myself for the first time - and back then as it still does today it manages to fill your belly in under 90 minutes with mythical and even mystical dimensions while also including broadway stalwarts like nathan lane and ernie sabella singing about flatulence. it isn't enough to channel hamlet or other sources (or even other disney epics), it's simply that the lion king is a master's class in pacing and tone and economical storytelling. at heart what strikes me is that it's a saga that can mean a lot to children (and i'm sure adults/parents) because it's at core about that scene where mufasa tells simba he's disappointed. that is the worst.
tones are not clashing haphazardly, but flowing from one into another at just the right moments and intervals. you may be lulled into complacency in hakuna matata, and then you're reminded times are still dark (how zazu lived so long is kind of a miracle imo). it earns its sorrow and painful moments, but only dwells long enough for you to feel its impact. it's a serious film, but there's joy and bright colors when need be and boundless creativity in the set pieces (and my god does be prepared play as a lot more sinister after the past several years in this country).
it doesn't need to explain why animals who would normally be prey for ravenous lions hang with them, because it has this dimension where things are precisely, comfortably and when necessary harrowingly metaphorical. the filmmakers and animators and storyboard artists have such a solid base for a story that the character work takes center stage: i love animation that is this expressive and soulful, and the director's know that as much as the lines may convey intentions and feelings, sometimes what isn't said speaks even louder (look at scar and simba's faces and eyes for like every second they are on screen, some of the best film acting of the decade).
i'm glad i still love this movie. of course there are some seams (its obvious to me now where jim cummings came in on prepared to step in when jeremy irons broke his voice on the song), and the comic relief isn't as funny as in aladdin or great mouse detective from that golden age. but it's powerful and it's a strong example of how cinema can elevate problematic politics (how mufasa explains the circle of life is... hmm...)
Sentiment: Positive (Score: 0.923)

the best disney animated film ever...this film had it all, it was funny, emotional, had family drama, and above all, great animation and songs! my personal favorite character is rafiki, the baboon! i still cant forget the line he says to simbe, "past can hurt, but as i see it, you can either run from it, or learn from it!" it is so true! i loved zazu's weirdness, and shenzi's humor, above all, i loved pumba's innocence and timon's intelligence! in short, i found the film the best film ever... the voice cast is also great. mathew did complete justice to simba, and what can i say about mufasa, he is the best king, and dad anyone can ever get! the movie is not meant for kids, its meant to teach every adult a lesson...to find our place in the great "circle of life". i give this film a perfect 10.
Sentiment: Positive (Score: 1.000)

this movie is, quite seriously, the citizen kane of disney animation. every animated movie from disney ever since has been a failed attempt to recreate the masterpiece that this film is. this movie is an anomaly in a market usually dominated by formulaic kiddie-fare. unlike most films from animation studios, this movie will enthrall you, whether you're 5 years old, or 50. an epic plot, intriguing characters, great music and hillarious moments make this film a family classic that will endure through the ages. 10/10
Sentiment: Positive (Score: 0.639)

i watched the film today and i have come to the conclusion that this disney film is one classic that will keep on delivering to disney fans like myself...tlk is a wonderful film with great characters and songs with a powerful message that you can always find your way back no matter how hard the journey...
i think the lion king is one of the best disney animated films matching with the power of bambi and brother bear.
i love how disney works hard to deliver the best in animation,song,and magic
i do believe that 2006 and many years from now the lion king will shine and still roar with success...
thank-you disney for the lion king
Sentiment: Positive (Score: 1.000)

this is truly one of the best disney movies ever. i really enjoyed it when i first seen it, about when i was 6, and since then i watched it over and over again. i simply looooved the music. it's one of the best soundtracks i've ever heard. and, speaking of soundtrack, i just can't tell in words how much i love the song "can you feel the love tonight". is one of my favorite songs ever. i truly believe that this motion picture could easily be nominated for the best picture, but the best song and the best original score is really enough. i wonder if they will ever think to make a prequel of this movie in order to understand who is mufasa, scar, sarabi and the other characters. in short, this movie will be remembered in the next 100 years. truly.
Sentiment: Positive (Score: 1.000)

a film that only get better with repeat viewings and age, the lion king is a fantastic animated masterpiece that is among disney's finest achievements. stellar voice work, great musical score, beautiful to look at and emotionally complex and riveting.
Sentiment: Positive (Score: 1.000)

this movie was such a sweet heartwarming tale. it had its funny moments its action it really is a perfect movie for the kids. and for the adults the acting was great and it had a very good story very predictable but not when i was a kid.
this movie is about a young lion cub "simba" who is tricked into thinking he was responsible for his fathers death so ridden with guilt he leaves the pride and goes off on his own. he grows up on his own but meets lifelong friends on the way.
this was such an adorable tale. everyone is sure to love this movie exspecially the kids but the adults will find it very sweet and heartwarming as well.
Sentiment: Positive (Score: 1.000)

released christmas day in 2002 to imax and large format screens, the lion king makes a triumphant return to the screen after eight years. its every bit as majestic and great as it has been before.
the lion king mufasa (james earl jones) just had a baby cub named simba. all of the animals come to the ceremony, except for mufasa's brother scar (jeremy irons). scar desperately wants to be king, but can't. as long as mufasa and simba are there. soon simba is able to walk and talk and is voiced by jonathon taylor thomas. after hearing about an elephant graveyard from scar, he and his friend nala (niketa calame) visit it. they meet three bumbling hyenas: banzai (cheech marin), shenzi (whoopi goldberg), and ed (jim cummings), but they manage to leave unhurt. scar is upset that the hyenas didn't do the job, so he orders a stampede to wipe out both of them, but it only takes care of mufasa. scar convinces simba that he killed mufasa, not scar. so simba flees into exile.
the lion king really benefits from the larger screen. its lavish landscapes will be able to capture you more, and you can really savor the animation. disney didn't need any humans, so they could spend all of the time on a great story and lush landscapes. in fact, its camera movement was so majestic that you actually felt like you were part of the pride of lions.
the music boomed and really created the atmosphere. although i had seen this picture before, i still was tense because of the way the music played out. most of the time, i would just roll my eyes at the attempt to make me nervous. but hans zimmer's music really bowled me over and made my heart do calisthenics. unlike such new disney pics like lilo and stitch, the songs actually did some good. they took you out of a somewhat dreary mood and put a smile on your face and made your feet want to tap along. there were only a few, but they were very entertaining. and the circle of life song at the beginning was beautiful, with its perfect pictures and perfect sound.
i really like james earl jones (he's pretty diverse), and this time was no exception. he seemed to act like he didn't want to do this role, but he couldn't contain his excitement for wanting to do voice-overs again (he had done some work in the simpsons before). matthew broderick redeemed himself for me (after the atrocious ferris bueller's day off) by showing a strong voicing as the adult simba. cheech marin, whoopi goldberg, and jim cummings really had good chemistry together, even though they didn't have much screen time. irons was really good and creepy as scar (one of those who you can't help but hate), and if that is him really singing, brava!
be warned, the lion king isn't really for youngsters. it had intense thematic elements that should have warranted a pg, instead of those that don't deserve it (lilo and stitch, again). the mood that the music and the script brought out could damper your day, so be warned.
this is one movie where you can feel for the characters. you don't say 'haha, he's dead', you say 'gasp! i'm so sad!' if it weren't for the gifted scriptwriters, this movie would be kaput and a nothing, not the best disney movie ever made.
the lion king is a majestic movie, not without humor, that is for almost all to see.
my rating: 9/10
rated g for intense thematic elements.
Sentiment: Positive (Score: 0.816)

the lion king is viewed by most as the peak in disney's renaissance period and remains, to this date, the highest grossing 2d animated film of all time. with disney on such a high expectations were, while this was increased by the superb vocal talent and wonderful animation, and for many those expectations were met. though a lot are going to disagree with me, i have to come out and say that i think the film is kind of overrated. that doesn't mean i dislike it as a matter of fact i agree that it does have fantastic elements, but for the heaps of praise it gets i'm not sure if it holds up well enough.
the story is effectively a toned down hamlet. a lion prince named simba is born, meaning that his cruel uncle scar is now second in line to the throne. scar plots to kill both king mufasa and simba, succeeding in killing mufasa and making simba believe he was at fault. simba flees the kingdom and remains in exile for a number of years, until figures of the past challenge him and he must return home to take his rightful place as king. the story is a very interesting one, it is a much more mature than you would expect from disney and i really enjoy it for that reason. everything that happens seems to happen for a reason and there isn't any filler as far as the plot goes. after all this is a very big story and telling it in a cohesive mature manner works very well.
the other impressive feature is the animation. it's clear that the animators put a lot of work in to create such a visually pleasing place for this to all happen in. the colours used give the place such a bright beautiful look and it is actually quite authentic looking too. scenes of bird flying over the vivid landscape or of the sun shining over the land are so beautiful to look at. the character designs were also very good, like the contrast between the powerful mufasa and the slimy scar. the sheer scope of things is another wonderful aspect, such as when scar's paw first comes down or the later wildebeest stampede. even things like the backgrounds look massive which gives an extra size to this world.
the characters are rather hit and miss. simba is a bit of a bland lead, he is just a kid for most of it but he does come off as a bit too boring and even obnoxious at times. he doesn't get any better the older he gets and matthew broderick's voice only adds to the dullness. mufasa is just a brilliant character. he is designed wonderfully, has some really interesting characteristics and james earl jones' booming voice is perfect for it. a lot of people rate scar as a top villain yet for me he's just decent. he is enjoyably devious and jeremy irons clearly has fun with the role, but he does come off as not that smart and a bit snivelling in the end. zazu is very funny with rowan atkinson delivering some good lines and rafiki is also very likable for coming across as a good friend. i'm not a big fan of timon and pumbaa as they come off as a bit annoying and wink at the camera too much, though they do have some amusing scenes. the hyenas were daft but entertaining, while i think nala was underplayed too much.
i do have issues with the film. the message that it is trying to get across is an interesting one in how we must learn from the past to move forward. the problem is that when simba confronts his past nobody believes him until scar says what really happened. looking at this you can't help but feel simba would have been better off lying and that harms the whole point of the message. also i think a lot of the comedic elements feel very misplaced. for a story as grand and serious as this i can't help but find that the comedy is too trivial at times which is distracting. as mentioned timon and pumbaa just feel a bit misplaced because they're jokes are slightly too silly. if done well, like with zazu or the hyenas antics, then its nice relief but otherwise it doesn't work.
also i really find that the songs are a mixed bag. 'i just can't wait to be king' and 'can you feel the love tonight' just come off as your typical pop songs and there isn't anything truly catchy or memorable about them. 'hakuna matata' is another one everyone loves, but for me it's just annoying. on the other hand however, 'circle of life' is a brilliantly grand number that opens the film perfectly and 'be prepared' is really catchy with some very enjoyable singing from jeremy irons.
elsewhere there are some really memorable sequences here. the circle of life opening is something that everyone should remember, the wildebeest chase is visually stunning as well as pulse-pounding, simba talking to mufasa in the clouds is sadly beautiful and the final battle sequence does have some great images. also i thought it was very brave decision to actually show the body of mufasa after his death. in fact going on from that the movie does have a very strong emotional core running throughout that is very welcoming and smartly used.
on the whole i do think that the lion king is a very accomplished piece from disney, i just don't find it as engaging as most people do. this is a big story with a lot of big elements, i just find that whilst most of the work some of them aren't quite as successful. i do wish other disney films were as acclaimed as the lion king, but i still find an entertaining and well-made film.
Sentiment: Positive (Score: 0.587)

ok i know i am probably alone here, but i was a little disappointed with this film. maybe the hype surrounding it gave me greater expectations, who knows? i thought it was a good plot, (although an overused plot in movies)and some of the characters were really good. but i found parts of the movie boring and the music not up to disney standards. elton john got an oscar i believe, but can't see why.
best parts of the movie are the interactions between simba and scar. in fact i thought that jeremy irons performance was outstanding.
the animation was pretty hit and miss i thought.
so sorry tlk fans but i wasn't thrilled by this movie.
Sentiment: Positive (Score: 0.977)

delightful animated feature from walt disney pictures about a naive young lion cub destined for greatness. born the son of a beloved and authoritative king he's groomed to be the next ruler of the kingdom, but along the way he encounters tragic detours at the hands of his villainous uncle and scheming hyena henchmen. years lateras an adulthe decides to embrace his destiny and take his proper place in the circle of life. warm, intelligent, laugh-out loud funny film is a triumph in every aspect; unforgettable songs, snappy dialogue, remarkable animation, and a stellar cast of voices make this a treat for all ages. a rousing adventure that you can enjoy again and again, and arguably one of the finest animated films ever made. ****
Sentiment: Positive (Score: 0.885)

this was, and still is,a great movie i love it, and hope that everyone gets to experience it for themselves, i've watched it many times and it is always good no matter how many times you have seen it,the songs are great and so are all the characters and the story is incredible, great for all ages and i really recommend it to anyone who hasn't already watched it.
Sentiment: Positive (Score: 1.000)

legendary and one of the best cartoons in history!!(and for me - the best. my mother even told me that i watched it every day as a child!)
the tragic story is really instructive, beautiful landscapes and a very warm atmosphere that is memorable. the prescribed characters and the original idea - all this makes watching interesting for any age.
legendary music, beautiful animation and other things that will make you fall in love with this cartoon.
it is very strange if someone has not seen this masterpiece yet. this is the classic that, although no one insists on, but it is desirable to know!
Sentiment: Positive (Score: 1.000)

i think think this film is excellent and nothing can ever relate to it. i will love this movie my whole life i know i will!! its great :)
the music, the sounds, the characters,the whole movie is great. its definitely great for kids and it always will be this movie will never grow old. people will still like it when they are 60+. i bet there are people sixty and over who do love this movie.. i am glad that i grew up with this movie its great and i just have to say fare play to the directer i love it!!! i am happy i found this sight i think it is great it give the public a chance to see how there favorite movie is rated by people all over the world. and i think it is excellent the public is aloud to vote!
Sentiment: Positive (Score: 1.000)

"the best movie i ever watched in any form or any in language".
no, i am not exaggerating! it is the best movie ever, whether in human form or in animated. i can't find a single flaw in the lion king (1994). someone could argue that the story is not original, disney just twisted it. someone could also argue that i didn't watch that much of movies to judge "the best ever" but as i said, this the best movie i ever saw. the story is nice and free flowing and without any unnecessary bumpers. one can not recognized the voices behind the characters, because the characters are so prominent. music! let me say i am not very fond of english pop songs, but i could hum almost most of the songs of this movie, so i would say, music is that nice. animation is superb, landscapes are eye catching, dialogues are sharp and comedy is at its best. what more might i say?
beside everything, you can say how crazy i am about this movie by my name.
enjoy the movie, don't leave the seat. hakuna matata!
Sentiment: Positive (Score: 0.713)

this is a fantastic movie, and i am not lying! my 13 year old sister loves this movie, and i can't fault this either. it was one of the first movies i ever saw, so that accounts for how much i love it. the animation is superb, the backgrounds look so rich, and for once, there are no stiff movements. the highlights were the stampede and the fight between scar and simba. the music by hans zimmer is outstanding, a perfect mix of african chants and pure hollywood. the songs are absolutely great, i had no idea that elton john could write like that. the best song is "can you feel the love tonight?" but the others go without fault, "circle of life" is so spirit rousing especially. likewise with the voice overs. jonathan taylor thomas is very likable as young simba, and matthew broderick, while not as good, is above average too. james earl jones lends his booming voice to the majestic king mufassa, and nathan lane, rowan atkinson and whoopi goldberg provide flawless comic relief. the vocal standout is jeremy irons as scar, who frightened me when i was little. scar is up there with the best disney villains, like jafar, malificent and frollo. the humour here is fantastic, and you cry here a bit here as well. i highly recommend the stage version in the west end, and the sequels are actually two of the better dtv sequels.10/10. bethany cox
Sentiment: Positive (Score: 1.000)

the lion king made a big splash when it was released in the mid-90's. i missed it then, but saw it recently because of my 3 yr old son. i've also seen other animated-family comedies like shrek, finding nemo and ice age in recent weeks. given the leaps in digital technology achieved in the past decade, the lion king looks very dated. the animation and colors are not as realistic and vivid as 21st century pixar-disney offerings.
this is basically a child-friendly take on the hamlet tale with denmark replaced by the african jungle and people replaced by lions, and other animals, notably a parrot, hyenas etc. the elton john soundtrack is still quite good, with the morning report and hakuna matata standing out. the dialogue is not nearly as witty as that of ice age or nemo but still appealing for kids. we have james earl jones and jeremy irons voices for two vital characters, and both have magnificent voices for animated movies. irons even sings a song or two and has a pretty pleasant voice.
Sentiment: Positive (Score: 1.000)

